Hello world2 (#58)
opensparkl/sse_cli: docs/tutorial3.rst

#######################
Hello Conditional World
#######################

Up till now we only dealt with cases where there was only one possible response. In most workflows you'll need to cover more possible outcomes.

Let us have a look at a third sample configuration where we can either greet the world or say goodbye to it.

The configuration
-----------------

> The `HelloWorld3 configuration <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/master/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml>`_ introduces a number of new concepts:

Reviewer: 💅 
```suggestion
The `HelloWorld3 configuration <https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/blob/master/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml>`_ introduces a number of new concepts:
```

Author: Good point, thanks!

Reviewer: Addressed in https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/pull/58/commits/3adc281f537e95e158ea924715f8c5d797364c7f - ok.

- Notify and consume operations:
    - A notify operation is similar to a solicit in the sense that it triggers a transaction. A notify - however - does not wait for a response.
    - A consume operation forms a transaction goal like a response. SSE will try to collect the fields the consume expects. A consume also does not return anything.
    - Notifies and consumes are normally used for their side-effects, as opposed to a solicit/response where you're actually interested in the outcome of the transaction.
    - A consume can also be used to make sure a set of request operations happen. A request operation will only be invoked if its reply contributes to satisfying a goal.
    - Consumes can easily be used along a solicit/response too. In that case, the SSE will try to collect the fields required by both the response and the consumes. They may even expect the very same fields.
- Service states

>     - An expression service - one with ``provision=expr``, by default supports service states. All operations on that service can read from and write to this state.

Author: @lucafavatellawork I think you're hitting some pain points here ;)

The API reference section of the old docs is pretty much up-to-date still, and it lists the available provision values and related properties. Resurrecting it in a simple `rst` or `md` version is something I would really like to do in the future. For the scope of this PR though it is way beyond scope :)

http://docs.sparkl.com/#TopicRoot/API_ref/api_ref_intro_c.html

>     - An expression service - one with ``provision=expr``, by default supports service states. All operations on that service can read from and write to this state.

Author: Again, I can only repeat myself re API docs. Probably would be worth a discussion if @jacobythwaites  plans to keep `expr.state` and similar at all. I included them only to illustrate side-effects - i.e. operations can change state besides carrying data in fields.

    - A request or consume operation for example can have the side-effect of writing to the state of their service.
- Conditional replies/responses

>     - A request can have one or more replies to it.

Reviewer: I see the reply is selected based on the return value of the expression e.g. [`"Error"`](https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/blob/21009cbee29aa5521d741fd276fdb263cfa9b5a3/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml#L42-L47). What is meant to happen if the expression returns a value that is not the name of one of the replies?

Author: The transaction ends with an error. Good point, worth pointing this out!

>     - A request can have one or more replies to it.

Reviewer: - I see the fields associated to a reply can have been `put` in the expression e.g. [field `"error"` in reply `"Error"`](https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/blob/21009cbee29aa5521d741fd276fdb263cfa9b5a3/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml#L41-L47).
- I see the fields associated to a reply can have no value `put` in the expression e.g. [field `"HELLO"` in reply `"Hello"`](https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/blob/21009cbee29aa5521d741fd276fdb263cfa9b5a3/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml#L45).
- I read in `tutorial2.rst` that "By convention, we name FLAG fields using uppercase characters.".

What is meant to happen if:
- An expression returns as value the name of a reply that has a lowercase field for which the expression did not `put` a value?
- An expression returns as value the name of a reply that has an uppercase field for which the expression did `put` a value?

I would expect the convention of lowercase vs. uppercase field name to be enforced in the reply.

Author: The reply will not care about the convention. As for the two cases you describe:
- Field needs value but it's not supplied - I would need to check but I think it will send a default value (e.g. for an integer type field it's 0, for a string, probably "")
- If you supply a field value for a FLAG field it should be ignored (again, something to check just in case)

Thanks for the questions - very helpful, I will integrate them in the explanations.

- The transaction triggered by the ``Say`` solicit returns different responses depending on the state of the ``Expr`` service.

.. code-block:: bash

    SendState -> SetState

    Say -> GetState -> GetState/Error -> Say/Error
    Say -> GetState -> GetState/Hello -> Hello -> Hello/Ok -> Greeting -> Greeting/Ok -> Say/Ok
    Say -> GetState -> GetState/Goodbye -> Goodbye -> Goodbye/Ok -> Greeting -> Greeting/Ok -> Say/Ok

Running the configuration
-------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    >>> from sparkl_cli.main import sparkl
    >>> sparkl('connect', SSE_URL)
    {...'tag': 'pong'}
    >>> sparkl('login', USER, PASSWORD)
    {...'tag': 'user'}
    >>> sparkl('mkdir', FOLDER)
    {...'tag': 'change'}
    >>> config_url = 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/master/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml'
    >>> sparkl('put', config_url, FOLDER)
    {...'tag': 'change'}

Let's put the configuration in place the usual way so we can work with it.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> sparkl('vars', literal=[('name', 'World')])
    {'tag': 'vars', 'attr': {'count': 1}...}

>     >>> sparkl('call', FOLDER + '/HelloWorld3/Backend/GetState')

Reviewer: I am a bit surprised by the choice of demoing `/Backend/GetState`, that is request hence intended to be internal, rather than `/API/Say`, that is solicit hence intended to be external. Though ok.

Author: I think it is very important for a developer to be aware that they can unit test particular operations too, not just whole transactions.

    {'tag': 'reply', 'attr': {...'name': 'Hello'}, 'content': [{'attr': {'field':...'name': 'HELLO'}...}]}

> By default, we get a ``Hello`` reply as the initial state of the ``Expr`` service is ``Hello``.

Reviewer: I see this depends on [the `prop` item with name `expr.src` having been already executed](https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/blob/21009cbee29aa5521d741fd276fdb263cfa9b5a3/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml#L12-L14). This implies intention that a service with name `Expr` started up and - as first thing - executed this `expr.src`. Maybe it would be helpful to have this call `sparkl('call', FOLDER + '/HelloWorld3/Backend/GetState')` wrapped in a `listen` so to show that there was a `service_up` event?

Not sure whether that would show the actual `expr.src` snippet being run, but - if `listen` usages in following examples in docs do not show such `service_up` event - that `service_up` would help.

Author: When the sequencing needs an operation, it starts the service that executes it. There would be a service up event then. When the service comes up, it executes the script in it. The service script changes the state of the service - thus you get a state change event too.

> By default, we get a ``Hello`` reply as the initial state of the ``Expr`` service is ``Hello``.

Reviewer: I see that [when request `GetState` uses service `Expr` it also has a line `<prop name="expr.state" State="NewState"/>`](https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/blob/21009cbee29aa5521d741fd276fdb263cfa9b5a3/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml#L29-L30). This surprises me, as I would have expected the reference to the name `Expr` to refer to a singleton that already had a state name defined at [service definition time](https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/blob/21009cbee29aa5521d741fd276fdb263cfa9b5a3/docs/examples/hello-world3.xml#L11). And I would have rather expected an error in attempting to re-define such prop.

Author: That property should not be there on the operation - got there by blind copy-pasting :D Will delete it. I think SSE - by the way - happily ignores it

Reviewer: I see addressed by https://github.com/opensparkl/sse_cli/pull/58/commits/547ce6038ac3b3836844678c7d327acd0f45f6dc - ok.

Let's see what happens if we change it.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> sparkl('vars', literal=[('state', 'Goodbye')])
    {'tag': 'vars', 'attr': {'count': 2}...}
    >>> notify_events = sparkl('listen', FOLDER)

>     >>> sparkl('call', FOLDER + '/HelloWorld3/API/SendState')

Reviewer: Does this call synchronously wait for any ensuing execution to complete?

Author: "A notify operation is similar to a solicit in the sense that it triggers a transaction. A notify - however - does not wait for a response."

No, it just kicks off a transaction.

Reviewer: So what prevents the subsequent
```
    >>> for _n in range(4):
    ...     print(next(notify_events))
```
from failing with a [`StopIteration` exception](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#next) from time to time? This looks like lack of determinism in tests / CI.

Author: @lucafavatellawork there are two different things here:
1. You subscribe to events. 
2. You send a notify.

The notify comes back with `ok`. From it's point of view the notify is done. It's not asynchronous.

As a result of the notify operation, a transaction happens, that means that there will be - besides the notify event a number of request/reply events and so on. 

So the test **is** deterministic because I know exactly how many events should happen as a result of the notify event :

    {'tag': 'ok'}
    >>> for _n in range(4):
    ...     print(next(notify_events))
    {'attr': {'service': '.../HelloWorld3/Sequencer'}, 'tag': 'service_up'}
    {'attr': {'notify': '.../HelloWorld3/API/SendState'...}, 'content': [{'attr': {'name': 'state',...'value': 'Goodbye'}...}], 'tag': 'notify'}
    {'attr': {'consume': '.../HelloWorld3/Backend/SetState'...}, 'content': [{'attr': {'name': 'state'...'value': 'Goodbye'}...}], 'tag': 'consume'}

>     {'attr': {'service': '.../HelloWorld3/Expr'}, 'content': [{'attr': {'State': 'Hello'}, 'tag': 'old'}, {'attr': {'State': 'Goodbye'}, 'tag': 'new'}], 'tag': 'state_change'}

Reviewer: Here the transition of `State` from `Hello` to `Goodbye` is visible - great.

The notify and consume operations happen as expected. Moreover, the state of the ``Expr`` service changes from ``Hello`` to ``Goodbye``.

.. code-block:: python

    >>> sparkl('vars', literal=[('name', 'Cruel World')])
    {'tag': 'vars', 'attr': {'count': 2}...}

>     >>> sparkl('call', FOLDER + '/HelloWorld3/Backend/GetState')

Reviewer: I am a bit surprised by the choice of demoing `/Backend/GetState`, that is request hence intended to be internal, on top of `/API/Say` (the preliminary `GetState` could give the impression that doc has to "push" the internals a bit for then letting `/API/Say` to work correctly). Though ok.
